problem |solution| reco

The study of anaphora involves both syntax and semantics. We need syntax to
describe the distribution of anaphoric expressions and their antecedents, and we need
semantics to describe how the semantic value of an anaphoric expression is determined.

Anaphora -is a type of expression whose reference depends upon another referential element.

	Anaphora, reference is made on the preceding part of the text (antecedent) opposed to
	Cataphora, reference is on the proceding part of the text (postcedent)

	Exophoric reference, reference is not found inside the text
	Homophoric reference is a generic phrase that obtains a specific meaning through knowledge of its context. Example, 'The Mayor', where the user must have sufficient knowledge about the Mayor.


antecedent - the one being pointed by the anaphor
	ex: Richard killed himself. 
	Richard is the Antecedent.
	Himself is the Anaphor

Anaphoric Expression - the phrase that refers to an antecedent.


Pronomial - refers to ordinary personal pronoun like he, she, him, her, etc.

Reflexive Pronoun it is a pronoun that is preceded by the noun, adjective, adverb or pronoun to which it refers (its antecedent) within the same clause.
ex. herself, himself

Pragmatic Anaphora is a type of anaphor that requres the reader to have knowledge on the context in order to find the anaphor / antecedent.

(Parteep 2008)
 Coreference Vs Bound Variable

 Coreference 
 	-antecent is specific; is a proper name;

 	-the antecedent is an 'e-type' expression that denotes (refers to) an individual, and the pronoun “picks up the reference of” its antecedent.

 Bound Variable
 	-antecedent is a scope; do not refer to an individual. ex. Every man, No one.

Barbara H. Partee Anaphoric Samples
(1)
	a John left because he was tired. NP(Noun Phrase he) - Pronominal Anaphora
	
	b Mary went to California because Susan did ____. VP(Verb Phrase) Null anaphoric expression, Null Verb Phrase; Verb Phrase missing (...because susan did too)
	c Tom may arrive this evening. If so, I'll be very happy. Sentential anaphora because antecedent is a whole sentence(Tom may arrive this evening). Anaphor : So. 
	
	d Some careless driver backed into our car. Such people make me mad.  Adjectival Anaphora. Antecedent: Such. Anaphor: Some careless driver. Anaphor is a property-denoting expression.
	
	e No one wanted to admit that he might be wrong. Pronominal anaphora with a quantified Noun Phrase as an antecedent. (Antecedent is  a range of possible answers).


(3) cataphora
	a. If you can find it, I would recommend buying the 1977 Vishnevskaya recording.  Antecedent : 1977 Vishnevskaya recording. Anaphor: it;

	b. As we have __ in the past, WFCR will continue to bring you the finest music. Antecedent: Missing ex: it. Anaphor: bring you the finest music.

	c. I can’t believe it! We won!

	d. You must remember this: A kiss is just a kiss; a sigh is just a sigh.

(5) the strict-sloppy identity problem, argument for two different interpretation rules.

	John loves his wife. Where 'his' can mean John's or can have referent outside the sentence.

(6)
	John loves his wife and so does Bill. 
		John loves Max's wife and Bill loves Max's wife.
		John loves John's wife and Bill loves John's wife.
		John loves John's wife and Bill loves Bill's wife.

(7)
	John can stand on his head , and Mary can too. 
		(can stand on her head too? or John's head?)


(9)
	Lucie thought that Lili hurt her.
Antecedent: Lucie. Anaphor: her.
	Lucie thought that Lili hurt herself.
Antecedent: Lili. Anaphor: herself.
	Lucie thought that herself hurt Lili
Antecedent: can be either.






