
what is research?

as the word itself describes, re-search or to search again. Literally, we search and search (and search) until enough details,
facts regarding a certain topic are sufficed. Research is the process of seeking information to an area in a systematic disciplined 
manner. Research aims to give unbiased specific details and studies derived from existing studies or records related on the 
researh topic.


//
as the word itself describes, re-search or to search again. Literally, we search and search (and search) again until the quescattion
is answered and the answer is validated. Reseach is the process of seeking an answer to a question or problem
in a systematic disciplined manner. Research does more than just answering a problem. It answers it and proves that the answer is
correct and valid based on existing studies related to the said problem.
//


differentiate research, project, thesis, dissertation

A research gives details and studies. Whilst a project is an innovation of a certain group or company, it is also an implementaion 
of a known idea. A thesis aims to prove a statement or a problem (thesis statement). It answers and proves that the answer is
correct and valid based on existing studies related to the said problem. A dissertation is an extension of a thesis or a research.
Extension by application, by proof or by recommendation. 


categories of research

Research may be very broadly defined as systematic gathering of data and information and its analysis for advancement of knowledge in any subject. research attempts to find answer intellectual and practical questions through application of systematic methods.

Types of research can be classified in many different ways. some major ways of classifying research include the following.

Descriptive versus Analytical Research
Applied versus Fundamental Research
Qualitative versus Quantitative Research
Conceptual versus Empirical Research
Descriptive research concentrates on finding facts to ascertain the nature of something as it exists. In contrast analytical research is concerned with determining validity of hypothesis based on analysis of facts collected.

Applied research is carried out to find answers to practical problems to be solved and as an aid in decision making in different areas including product design, process design and policy making. Fundamental research is carried out as more to satisfy intellectual curiosity, than with the intention of using the research findings for any immediate practical application.

Quantitative research studies such aspects of the research subject which are not quantifiable, and hence not subject to measurement and quantitative analysis. In contrast quantitative research make substantial use of measurements and quantitative analysis techniques.

Conceptual research is involves investigation of thoughts and ideas and developing new ideas or interpreting the old ones based on logical reasoning. In contrast empirical research is based on firm verifiable data collected by either observation of facts under natural condition or obtained through experimentation.

